Update index.md (#8554)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/nodes-and-clients/index.md

Ethereum is a distributed network of computers (known as nodes) running software that can verify blocks and transaction data. The software application, known as a client, must be run on your computer to turn it into an Ethereum node.

> **Note: it is not possible to run an execution client on its own anymore. After [The Merge](/upgrades/merge), both execution and consensus clients must be run together in order for a user to gain access to the Ethereum network. However, a consensus client can still run independently.**

Reviewer: Is there a reason for adding this @Olshansk? AFAIK both clients are requires at this point.

As evidence, in order for the consensus client to even know _who_ the validators are, it currently relies on the records of the staking deposit contract which is part of the execution layer.
```suggestion
**Note: it is not possible to run an execution client on its own anymore. After [The Merge](/upgrades/merge), both execution and consensus clients must be run together in order for a user to gain access to the Ethereum network.**
```

Reviewer 2: @wackerow I think the point is that you can run a node as a service instead. I also disagree with adding this; it's confusing and feels like it's trying to push centralized services.

A "node" is any instance of Ethereum client software that is connected to other computers also running Ethereum software, forming a network. A client is an implementation of Ethereum that verifies data against the protocol rules and keeps the network secure.

> Post-Merge Ethereum consists of two parts: the **execution layer** and the **consensus layer**. Both layers are run by different client software. On this page, we'll refer to them as the execution client and consensus client.

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't make stylistic choices on a whim. 

```suggestion
Post-Merge Ethereum consists of two parts: the execution layer and the consensus layer. Both layers are run by different client software. On this page, we'll refer to them as the execution client and consensus client.
```

The execution client Geth includes a [light sync](https://github.com/ethereum/devp2p/blob/master/caps/les.md) option. However, a light Geth node relies upon full nodes serving light node data. Few full nodes opt to serve light node data, meaning light nodes often fail to find peers.

There are also potential routes to providing light client data over the [gossip network](https://www.ethportal.net/). This is advantageous because the gossip network could support a network of light nodes without requiring full nodes to serve requests.

> Ethereum does not support a large population of light nodes yet, but light node support is an area expected to develop rapidly in the near future. In particular, clients like [Nimbus](https://nimbus.team/), [Helios](https://github.com/a16z/helios) and [LodeStar](https://lodestar.chainsafe.io/) are paving the way at the time of writing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ethereum does not support a large population of light nodes yet, but light node support is an area expected to develop rapidly in the near future. In particular, clients like [Nimbus](https://nimbus.team/), [Helios](https://github.com/a16z/helios), and [LodeStar](https://lodestar.chainsafe.io/) are currently heavily focused on light nodes.
```

## Alternatives {#alternatives}

> Setting up your own node can cost you time and resources but you don’t always need to run your own instance. In this case, you can use a third party API provider like [Infura](https://infura.io), [Alchemy](https://alchemyapi.io), [Chainstack](https://chainstack.com), [Pocket](https://pokt.network/) or [QuikNode](https://www.quiknode.io). Alternatively, [ArchiveNode](https://archivenode.io/) is a community-funded Archive node that hopes to bring archive data on the Ethereum blockchain to independent developers who otherwise couldn't afford it. For an overview of using these services, check out [nodes as a service](/developers/docs/nodes-and-clients/nodes-as-a-service/).

Reviewer 2: We've spoken about this before, but let's just remove this section and link to our nodes as a service page here. We can't list everyone here, and we want to remain credibly neutral. Thoughts @wackerow @jmcook1186 @corwintines?

Author: I'm actually one of the protocol engineers at Pocket.

I was reading this page for other reasons, and figured we could also add Pocket when I encountered this paragraph,

We're one of 6 providers in https://docs.ethers.io/v5/api/providers and the only one that's a decentralized network of node providers. Would really appreciate if you consider the change.

Reviewer 2: > EDIT: Were you suggesting removing the whole "Alternatives" section?

Yes. We should remove alternatives entirely. Or else we have to decide who to include/not include here subjectively.

Reviewer 2: @Olshansk I've created #8767 to cover the above. I'm removing the specific reference to Pocket in this PR in the interim and will get the rest of this merged.

> Setting up your own node can cost you time and resources but you don’t always need to run your own instance. In this case, you can use a third party API provider like [Infura](https://infura.io), [Alchemy](https://alchemyapi.io), [Chainstack](https://chainstack.com), [Pocket](https://pokt.network/) or [QuikNode](https://www.quiknode.io). Alternatively, [ArchiveNode](https://archivenode.io/) is a community-funded Archive node that hopes to bring archive data on the Ethereum blockchain to independent developers who otherwise couldn't afford it. For an overview of using these services, check out [nodes as a service](/developers/docs/nodes-and-clients/nodes-as-a-service/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting up your own node can cost you time and resources but you don’t always need to run your own instance. In this case, you can use a third party API provider like [Infura](https://infura.io), [Alchemy](https://alchemyapi.io), [Chainstack](https://chainstack.com), or [QuikNode](https://www.quiknode.io). Alternatively, [ArchiveNode](https://archivenode.io/) is a community-funded Archive node that hopes to bring archive data on the Ethereum blockchain to independent developers who otherwise couldn't afford it. For an overview of using these services, check out [nodes as a service](/developers/docs/nodes-and-clients/nodes-as-a-service/).
```
